[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> How were time
and space created?
I am your host,
Matias De Stefano.
In this episode, I am going to
explain how time and space were
created, the nature of
duality, and the forces that
come from that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When we, as In-Na
people, were taught
about the universe
and every dimension,
at first, a lot of us
thought that duality
was one of the most horrible
things that could possibly
happen, because we
are, like, trapped
in this positive and
negative existence.
But when we realized what was
the nature of the creation
of duality, we knew that
without that, nothing
could possibly exist.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Unity is the first
reality that exists,
is the first and
the only statement
that you could go through
the truth and the reality.
But when you think about that--
when you think about unity,
you could see everything
in the universe.
But you cannot
experience anything.
We used to talk about
unity as one librarian that
had read every book in
a library but had never
lived any experience that
was written in those books.
So there was a moment
that that librarian
stood in front of
a mirror and said,
what if I create
another reality, where
I could live every
possibility that I
was reading in those books?
So there comes duality.
Duality will be when the
unity asks the question,
what can I become?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Through that question,
a projection of the self
comes out.
And suddenly, you
can see yourself
from a different perspective.
This other side
of seeing yourself
allows you to see a
different way in which you
can move through the reality.
So the self in the center
splits in two and from that two,
create two forces.
One is what we call the purpose.
And the other one is
what we call the mission.
Purpose is the positive
energy in the universe.
And mission is a negative
Both of them are like waves of
just oneself dividing in two
and then start to roll
in between of them.
And they never
stop to rotating--
one around the other one,
creating different waves,
in different perspectives,
in different directions.
So it's like a dance
in which the self tried
to see every different aspect
of itself in a different way.
So they have to move.
But when one of them
moves, the other one
moves into the other direction.
So they are opposite
all the time.
And they are trying
all the time to see
the back of the other one.
So they start to split
more and more and more
in many other levels
and many other waves.
So duality starts to become
the positive and the negative.
Ever being in the
universe since that moment
is a creation from that
positive and negative energy.
We, in our planet, and
in many other planets
had not word for good and bad.
We all the time
called the positive
and the negative forces.
And the better way to understand
how these two forces work
is if you have in
the room a light.
And you put yourself
in the center.
As closest you get to the
light, the shadow behind you
will be bigger.
So the darkness is
surrounding you.
And as close as you get to the
main point of light, which is
the purpose you had, the goal--
to touch the other
perspective of yourself--
darkness will go all around you.
The light and the darkness
were just projections.
Now, the only way you can
see both as a creation
is in the center.
If you go through light or you
go through dark, one of those
will embrace you.
And then, you will be lost
in one of those perspectives.
So you have all this two
forces to create realities.
But if you move
towards one of them
and you're lost in one
of them, the universe
will hit you from behind.
And that's why to
one of those forces
we call the negative and the
bad energies of the universe.
The bad energies of
the universe are just
your own shadows
trying to remember you
that you are out of your way.
When everything
is going bad, when
the whole forces
of the universe is
telling you is this
is not your way
and suddenly
everything goes down,
it's not because there is a
bad force in the universe.
It's because you were so
far away from yourself
that that energy that
we call the mission
is pulling you back.
So you can find
your center again.
The only reality is unity.
That's why you cannot go towards
one of those perspectives,
because they are not true.
They are just a
perspective to see yourself
from another dimension.
So the duality is a
dimension of creation,
is the force that allows you
to create a lot of realities.
So the self can see different
perspectives from itself.
So negative and positive
are the two energies
that pulls out from the core,
from the unity, pulls out
all the energy.
So we can have this
movement, this dance.
And in this dance,
the unity start
to create, like, a spiral.
And this spiral
moves all the energy
from dark to light,
creating this network of energy
around the whole universe
that we call vibrations
and frequencies.
So all reality we
live in is created
by positive and negative.
And you should not
go to one of them,
because if you
choose one of them,
you are just pushing yourself
to the edge of a reality.
And you are pushing yourself
to destroy yourself.
There is no good and
bad in the universe.
There is only neutrality.
And neutrality needs both
to establish the creation
once and again.
In duality, we have this
law, which is everything
is evolving all the time.
Nothing is stable.
Nothing is always the same.
The only constant
in the universe
is that everything
is unconstant,
that everything is moving
and transforming itself.
So we believed, as humans, that
if we are stable, we are good.
We have a good job.
We have a good partners.
We have a good life.
So I'm stable.
But that's illness.
[LAUGHS]
When you get stabilized
in your life,
suddenly something
happens that push you
outside your comfortable life.
So you can find a different
perspective of yourself.
We call that crisis.
But crises are good for the
universe, because pushed you
towards evolution.
So we need the dark forces
and light forces all the time.
So we can evolve.
We cannot choose
just one of them.
The only way we can
possibly live in balance
is exactly that-- if we have the
same forces and the same amount
of energy of both.
The first things
that were created
in the universe as duality was
the projection of a purpose.
The self is just in one spot.
So in order to go
forward to find itself,
it needed to project a goal.
And that projection was
to take a part of it
from within to outside.
And we call it the purpose.
There is where we go--
a purpose.
It doesn't exist.
It's a projection, a hologram.
But we need it to create.
So we created purpose,
which we call the positive.
And opposite to that,
we created the mission,
which is in the back.
The mission is the one
that pushed us all the time
towards the purpose.
And what it pushed us from
behind is the darkness,
is the negative.
The negative also-- as humans,
we call it the feminine.
The feminine energy is not bad.
It's the womb.
It's the womb, where
we create our reality.
So the only way you can
create new realities
is when you close your eyes.
You go to the darkness.
And you just imagine
every possibility.
And the masculine
energy is the positive.
When you have created
every possibility,
you says, I choose this one.
And you go for it.
So that's the masculine energy,
which is not male and female.
It's creation and destruction.
So when you have
these two forces,
the waves of the universe start
to move from the low vibration
to the high vibration.
And this perspective of the
universe and this energy moving
around from the positive and
negative, positive and negative
start to wave what we
call the network of time.
The network of time is
one of the perspective
of the second dimension.
The second dimension is built
in base of time and space.
Time is this
negative energy that
holds us all in this
darkness reality that
projects every possibility
of creation, of experiences.
And that holds us
all in just one spot.
This spot is projected
in many, many, many ways
of seeing it from
different timelines.
And then, those
timelines condition
the spot to push itself to split
in two and create the space.
So after the time start
to project outside,
the space start to
project to every one
of those possibilities
in time and divide itself
as many parts it possibly can.
So we, as beings, can experience
every time and every space.
So we used to believe that if
we are in the third dimension,
we have come from
the second dimension.
And we have come from
the first dimension.
But actually, it's
not like that.
The second dimension tell
us that there was no time
and space, that it is just a
perspective of the projection
of the reality.
So the second dimension
is not behind us.
It's surrounding us.
It is the-- are the
forces that create
every possibility
that we are living
in every time and every space.
We, as In-Na people, in that
planet started to understand
that every projection in
the universe outside of us--
it was the darkness pushing us
towards our light and the light
pushing us towards the dark.
So in the reality of the
universe in the third dimension
we are living in,
we usually believe
that everything
that's outside is bad.
And everything is inside
is good and that everything
is outside is pushing us
towards experiences that take us
from our comfortable place.
So what In-Na people realize
was that if we as unity--
at the first dimension, we are
just projections from that.
We are projecting that reality.
So all this things that we have
outside, we also have within.
So what we will realize
is that we, inside,
have the same way of seeing it.
So we have two hands.
And we have the
hand of receiving
and the hand of giving.
So everything that we are
receive is energy from outside.
Then, we transform within.
And we give.
So this we call the negative.
And this we call the positive.
So suddenly, they
knew that there
was no projection outside,
that we could integrate
more than we can inside.
So they stopped thinking
about the projection outside.
And they just thought about
the projection within.
We have the negative
and the positive.
And there is only
one place, where
you can hold a neutrality
in between of them--
here, your heart.
So that's why they
started to understand
that the creation
is not something
that you just project outside.
It's something
that is all around,
in every time and every space.
We call that eternity.
You cannot fight eternity.
You cannot fight
creation of eternity.
So the only way you
can create and you
can be in balance
without eternity
is if you become that eternity.
So you may free him or her
or it of your perspective.
Why would that be?
There would be
unconditional love.
We used to call that,
as humans, all the time
unconditional love.
But we don't really know
exactly what it means.
Unconditional is something
that has not condition.
So you are not able to love
really if you have a condition.
The first condition
is the projection.
So the first condition
is, I am here.
And you are there.
That's a condition.
You cannot love the other
one if you don't realize that
it's yourself from
another perspective.
So unconditional and love--
love means eternity.
Love is the wave
of time and space.
It's not loving others.
We also make that mistake.
So we think that loving
others is the only way
to be in balance.
But it's not like that.
Loving others is loving
perspective from the self.
So the only way you can
possibly love unconditionally
is when you, in
coherence, love yourself.
It is the only way.
You have to love yourself
in every possible projection
of the self.
So what we were
taught about duality
is that you have to
know that you live
in every time and every space.
And when you love yourself,
you will love yourself
in every time and every space.
And we do this so
the ways that you
project of that center,
of that core creates
a wave that goes and goes back.
And it becomes balance
in the creation.
We have also learned in
this past 2,000 years
that compassion is
one of the tools
that we have to go through
unconditional love.
And compassion is not
to have pity of someone.
We usually make that mistake.
Compassion is a word
that comes to be
passionate about something.
That's the origin of the word.
So you have to be
passionate of creation.
So you have to share
the passion of creation.
Compassion is to share
the happiness of creation.
Because of Christianity, we have
this thought that compassion
is to help others.
But others are a
projection of yourself.
And the only way
you can help others
is if you are in your
core, in your balance.
And you are coherent
with yourself.
And then, by your
act, being just you,
you are sharing that
passion with the others.
So others can wake up and
see that you are fine,
because of you
are in the center.
I used to explain this
compassion like the trees does.
Trees are trees.
And they don't bend to help
other trees that fell down.
They don't help others to go up.
Trees hold itself.
And when someone fall down,
they share all the energy.
So they can transform
from that experience.
So in this perspective
of duality,
compassion is to share
the passion of creation,
is to be aware and
to be able to share
how you feel about yourself,
how you feel about your balance.
We are heading to the duality
of creation, not separation.
And that's one of the
most important things
that I think we have
to learn about duality.
Duality is not something bad.
Duality is creation.
In the universe, we
have this knowledge
that duality is the only way
you can create new realities
and that we all are bounded
by the second dimension
in between time and space.
But when you are part
of the third dimension,
you see a third possibility.
And sometimes when
you are just connected
to one of those possibilities,
of those three possibilities,
you forget the duality.
And you start to think that
this duality is something
that hurts you and
that it doesn't
allow you to go forward.
So that's when the time
in the second dimension
creates the time in the
third dimension-- what we
call future, present, and past.
Thousands of years
ago, we were taught
that the only life
that we have is this.
And then, if we do good now, we
can go to Heaven or go to hell.
So when we did that, we said
that duality, Heaven on Earth,
is bad, because
one of that is bad,
because we are in the
center, in the present.
But someone taught us
that the only possible way
to go out of this reality
is going to work light.
And this is not
something spiritual.
This is something biological.
We all-- in a planet
that has just one sun,
we have the opportunity to
have light just 12 hours a day.
We thought, because
we were trying
to survive in this really
chaotic world, that darkness
was bad, because
animals were killing us.
And someone could attack us.
So light was good,
because we were
able to see and to
defend ourselves.
So we created long
pattern in the history
that darkness was bad.
And light was good.
When we did that and we just
thought that has this only life
to survive, and then when we
created the idea of Heaven,
we say it must be light, of
course, because light is good.
So we created a Heaven with
a lot of light and hell
with a lot of darkness.
It's just biological,
not spiritual.
So when we did that, we
split the universe in two.
And we said one of
those two is bad.
And one of those is good.
So we have to go
to the good one.
And we have to
delete the bad one.
What happened?
That at the time of humanity, we
were all connected with duality
as creation--
we split in between
men that were trying
to achieve the purpose of
light, which was knowledge
and the women that were
in the caves working
by night with the ceremonies
of the moon, which were working
for wisdom--
knowledge and wisdom.
So we split that knowledge
to have different perspective
of the same reality.
But suddenly, when we said, OK.
Light is good.
So men is good.
And if dark is
bad, so every women
that is gathering by night
to have these ceremonies
must be bad.
So like, 4,000 years
ago, we started
to split humanity in
between the good ones that
were men and the bad
ones that were women.
But this is because we
disconnect ourselves
from the universe.
And we start to connect
just with the feeling
of surviving in this only life.
So when we start to
understand duality,
we will realize
that every person
that we meet in our lives is
just a mirror of ourselves.
The universe is
a big mirror that
has split in many, many,
many thousands of pieces.
Every reflection that
you see in your life
is telling you something
about yourself.
So don't see the others
with the judgment.
Just see what the
judgment is inside of you.
And then, you can
learn a new thing
about you because of duality.
Thank you for joining
me on this journey.
I am your host and
guide, Matias De Stefano,
for this series on the
creation of the universe.
Stay tuned for the
next episode, where
we dive into the creation of
matter and the third dimension.
[MUSIC PLAYING]